[Adolf Hitler was Time's Man of the Year for 1938.
A violin actually contains 70 separate pieces of wood.
It took approximately 2.5 million blocks to build the Pyramid of Giza, which is one of the Great Pyramids.
The Sea of Tranquility on the moon is deeper than the highest mountain on Earth.
The first household refrigerator cost about $16,000, in today's money.
A famous bullfighter, Lagarijo, killed 4,867 bulls in the 19th century.
The largest pig on record was a Poland-China hog named Big Bill, who weighed 2,552 lbs.
Carolyn Shoemaker, famous astronomer, has discovered 32 comets and approximately 300 asteroids.
By recycling just one glass bottle, the amount of energy that is being saved is enough to light a 100 watt bulb for four hours.
In the United States, the first cookbook was published in 1796 and it contained a recipe for watermelon rind pickles.
In a lifetime, the average driver will honk 15,250 times.
Buckingham Palace has over six hundred rooms.
Niagara Falls actually stopped flowing in 1848 for about 20 hours because there was ice that was blocking the Niagara River.
Fossilized bird droppings are one of the chief exports of Nauru, an island nation in the Western Pacific.
The colors yellow, red, and orange are used in fast food restaurants because those are the colors that stimulate hunger.
Albert Einstein was offered the presidency of Israel in 1952, but he declined.
A penguin swims at a speed of approximately 15 miles per hour.
A baby octopus is about the size of a flea when it is born.
If all the salt were to be extracted from the Earth's oceans, you would have enough salt to cover all of the continents five feet deep.
The country of Andorra has a zero percent unemployment rate.
All the Krispy Kreme donut stores collectively could make a doughnut stack as high as the Empire State Building in only 2 minutes.
In 1685, New France used playing cards as currency because of the shortage of coins.
In North America there are approximately 618 roller coasters.
If someone was to fly once around the surface of the moon, it would be equal to a round trip from New York to London.
Soldier’s disease is a term for morphine addiction. The Civil War produced over 400,000 morphine addicts.
According to Scientists, vampire bat saliva is the best known medicine for keeping blood from clotting.
The coliseum in Rome was used regularly for about 400 years.
Vincent Van Gogh's Portrait of Dr. Gachet is the most expensive painting sold at an auction. It was purchased for $85.2 million dollars.
There are about 125 million multiples (twins, triplets, etc.) worldwide.
One tree can filter up to sixty pounds of pollutants from the air each year.
A squash ball moving at 150 kilometers per hour has the same impact of a .22 bullet.
Your brain is 80% water.
Poll results: Nachos is the food most craved by mothers-to-be.
The parents of Albert Einstein were worried that he was mentally slow because it took him a long time to learn how to speak.
The amount of aluminum that Americans throw out in three months is enough to rebuild all American commercial planes.
During World War II, condoms were used to cover rifle barrels from being damaged by salt water as the soldiers swam to shore.
O.J. Simpson had a severe case of rickets and wore leg braces when he was a child.
The material to build the Taj Mahal was brought in from various parts of India by a fleet of 1000 elephants.
Gardening is said to be one of the best exercises for maintaining healthy bones.
The best time for a person to buy shoes is in the afternoon. This is because the foot tends to swell a bit around this time.
Daytime dramas are called Soap Operas because they were originally used to advertise soap powder. In America in the early days of TV, advertisers would write stories around the use of their soap powder.
The revenue that is generated from gambling is more than the revenue that comes from movies, cruise ships, recorded music, theme parks, and spectator sports combined.
Angel Falls in Venezuela is the world's highest waterfall, at 979 meters. This waterfall is sixteen times the height of Niagara Falls.
There are mirrors on the moon. Astronauts left them so that laser beams could be bounced off of them from Earth. These beams help give us the distance to the moon, give or take a few meters.
There are six million parts in the Boeing 747-400.
At just four years old Mozart was able to learn a piece of music in half an hour.
Bamboo plants can grow up to 36 inches in a day.
Abraham Lincoln's mother died when she drank the milk of a cow that grazed on poisonous snakeroot.
A galactic year is 250 million Earth-years. This is the time it takes for our solar system to make one revolution around the Milky Way Galaxy.
Leather skin does not have any smell. The leather smell that you sense is actually derived from the materials used in the tanning process.
In a year, an average person makes 1,140 phone calls.
The largest ketchup bottle is a 170 feet (52 m) tall water tower.
A Russian man who wore a beard during the time of Peter the Great had to pay a special tax.
Morihei Ueshiba, founder of Aikido, once pinned an opponent using only a single finger.
Every three seconds a baby is born somewhere in the world.
The University of Plymouth was the first university to offer a degree in surfing.
In only eight minutes, the Space Shuttle can accelerate to a speed of 27,000 kilometers per hour.
There are more than 40 million Americans that have 'chronic halitosis,' which is bad breath that never goes away.
It takes about 570 gallons of paint to cover the outside of the current U.S. President's home, the White House.
Honolulu, Hawaii boasts the only royal palace in the United States of America.
Central air conditioners use 98% more energy than ceiling fans.
In 1989, twenty-three people were hired in Jacksonville Florida just to flush toilets so the pipes would not freeze.
By weight, the sun is 70% hydrogen, 28% helium, 1.5% carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen, and 0.5% all other elements.
In the 1985 Boise, Idaho mayoral election, there were four write-in votes for Mr. Potato Head.
One of the steepest main streets in Canada is located in Saint John, New Brunswick. Over a distance of two blocks the street rises about 80 feet.
A Singapore singing group by the name of 'The Oriental Singers,' sang non-stop for 74 hours and five minutes.
By law, information collected in a U.S. census must remain confidential for seventy-two years.
Hockey pucks were originally made from frozen cow dung.
Squids move through the ocean using a jet of water forced out of the body by a siphon.
African Baobab tree's circumference can reach 180 feet. If the trunk is hollow, 20 people would be able to fit inside of it.
Enough paper is recycled in the USA every day, that a 15 mile long train of boxcars could be filled up with paper.
Someone gets divorced every ten to thirteen seconds.
People in France own more pets in the world per person than any other country.
There are dolphins that live in the Amazon River that are the color pink.
The projection light used for IMAX theaters can be seen from space.
An orca whale can hold its breath for up to 15 minutes.
The Flintstones cartoon was the first thirty-minute cartoon to be aired during prime time.
The largest number of children born to one woman, who was a Russian peasant, is 69.
It has been suggested that shepherds are responsible for inventing the game golf. It is said that they used to use their staffs to hit the stones.
Every day, over five billion gallons of water are flushed down toilets in the United States.
There are about 6,800 languages in the world.
In 1998, a law passed in the U.S. state of Virginia allows drivers to keep their road kill, as long as they report it within 12 hours.
Bill Bowerman, founder of the shoe company Nike, got his first shoe idea after staring at a waffle iron. This gave him the idea of using squared spikes to make the shoes lighter.
Every day, the Hubble telescope transmits enough data to fit 10,000 standard computer disks.
During the 60's, the women's liberation movement denounced bras as a symbol of servitude and encouraged bra burning rallies.
Many years ago, a fish was caught that was 33 inches long and seemed to be heavier than it should. When they cut the fish, fishermen found a full of bottle of ale inside it.
A one kilogram packet of sugar will have about 5 million grains of sugar.
In 1819, the USA purchased Florida from Spain for the cancellation of a $5 million debt.
Alaska is the western-most AND eastern-most state of the United States. Its islands stretch so far they actually cross the 180th meridian - the global dividing line between 'east' and 'west'.
The three wealthiest families in the world have more assets than the combined wealth of the forty-eight poorest nations.
In a year, the average person walks four miles to make his or her bed.
A leech has 32 brains.
The longest Hollywood kiss was from the 1941 film, 'You're in the Army Now.' It lasted for three minutes and three seconds.
The longest engagement lasted 67 years, and the couple ended up marrying when they were 82 years old.
The range of a medieval long-bow is 220 yards.
Charlie Chaplin once lost a contest for a Charlie Chaplin look a like.
If a person is struck by lightning, they sometimes vaporize (evaporate) completely, so that there is nothing left of them at all.
Bacteria trapped inside a salt crystal for 250 million years were revived and grown by scientists in the USA.
An adult human takes about 23,000 breaths per day.
An Anglo-American company will store samples of your disease-fighting white blood cells, so that more can be made if you get ill.
It takes less than 0.1 grams (0.004 ounces) of poison found in parts of the pufferfish to kill an adult human. However, some people eat the fish regularly as they know which bits to remove!
Dead bodies can remain perfectly intact after many years. This can happen when fat in the body turns into a type of soap that doesn’t rot.
Some people are ‘human calculators’ and can do really complicated sums in their heads instantly – even faster than someone with a calculator! No one knows exactly how their brains are different.
Malaria is a tropical disease spread by mosquitoes. Since the Stone Age, malaria has been responsible for half of all human deaths from illness.
Each person’s tongue print is unique.
In ancient times, Indian doctors used live ants to ‘stitch’ wounds together. The doctor would hold the edges together and get the ant to bite through the skin.The ant’s head would then be snapped off leaving its jaws as the ‘stitch’!
If scientists could build a brain from computer chips, it would take a million times as much power to run as a real human brain.
Your brain receives about 100 million pieces of information at any one moment from your eyes, nose, ears, skin and receptors inside your body.
Eating asparagus produces a chemical that makes urine smell strongly, although not everyone can smell it. Lucky them!
 A sneeze travels at 161 kilometres (100 miles) per hour.
A body left unburied in a tropical climate will be reduced to a skeleton in two weeks by the action of insects.
People can be born with ears growing from their necks or chests.
There are more bacteria in your mouth than there are people in the whole world!
More people are allergic to cows’ milk than to any other food or drink.
Rubbing yourself with a garlic clove is supposed to keep mosquitoes away... and vampires... and probably other people, too!
 People are taller in the morning than in the evening. During the day, the weight of your body compresses your spine as you walk around, then when you are asleep it expands again.
Electrical activity is detectablein a human brain up to 37 hours after death, possibly caused by chemical reactions.
The spice nutmeg is harmless if eaten in moderation, but deadly poisonous if injected. Beware!
 Your stomach lining replaces itself every three days.
If you could lay out all the possible nerve connections in your brain, end to end, they would stretch to about 3.2 million kilometres (2 million miles).
The strongest muscle in your body is your tongue!
If you read a novel that’s 100,000 words long (about 300 pages) your eyes will travel just under 1 kilometre (more than half a mile) along the pages.
There have been many cases of people spontaneously bursting into flames and dying. Often, their whole body is burned away. No one knows exactly why this spontaneous human combustion happens. What a way to go!
Your eyes take about an hour to get accustomed to the dark, but after that they are 100,000 times as sensitive to light as they are in bright sunlight.
Your skin is shed and regrown about every 27 days. Most people get through around 1,000 skins in a lifetime.
Your body destroys or loses two and a half million red blood cells every second. Luckily, it creates more at the same rate!
There is enough acid in the human digestive system to dissolve an iron nail completely.
Beard hair grows faster than any other hair on the human body. If left to grow for his whole life, a man’s beard could be 9 metres (30 feet) long.
There is enough iron in your body to make a nail...which you could then dissolve in all the acid!
Women blink twice as often as men.
The placenta, which nourishes an unborn baby, is the only organ that develops after a person is fully grown. It is lost when the baby is born and another grows if the woman becomes pregnant again.
One in 512,000 births results in triplets.
Only a few hundred people in the world are known to have the rare blood type H-H. A person with H-H blood can’t receive blood transfusions of any other blood type and may need to store their own blood in advance of an operation.
When you hold a seashell to your ear to ‘hear the sea’, what you actually hear is your own blood in the blood vessels of your ear.
If you could join up all the eyelashes you will lose during your lifetime they would stretch to about 30 metres (100 feet).
Hair grows most quickly during the day in the summertime. It grows more slowly at night and in winter.
People who have lost a limb in an accident or operation often feel pain or itching in it, even though it’s no longer there...
For years, doctors thought the appendix in the gut didn’t do anything. But in 2007, scientists discovered that it helps to grow new helpful bacteria if vital bacteria in the gut are killed by illness.
If all the blood vessels from a human body were laid end to end they would stretch 97,000 kilometres (60,000 miles).
A single human hair can support the weight of an apple.
Everyone spent about half an hour of their life as a single cell, at the start of their mother’s pregnancy.
A chemical found in asparagus attracts fish. During the First World War,American soldiers were issued with asparagus so that if they were stranded near water they could eat the asparagus, urinate in the water and catch some fish to eat!
If you rubbed garlic on the bottom of your foot, it would be absorbed through your skin and eventually your breath would smell of garlic!
You lose around two billion skin cells every day, which adds up to around 2 kilograms (4.5 pounds) in a year.
Laughing seems to reduce a person’s allergic responses. So if you have hay fever, try laughing about it!
Around 10 per cent of the population is left-handed, but boys are one and a half times more likely to be left-handed than girls.
The bad smell of faeces comes from chemicals produced by bacteria that break down the food in your gut.
Girls have more taste buds than boys.
Even though some dreams seem to last ages while you are experiencing them, they generally only take about 2-3 seconds. Most people have at least seven dreams a night.
Your brain gets lighter as you get older. In your twenties, it starts to lose up to a gram (0.035 ounces) a year as cells die and are not replaced.
Most people spend about the same amount of time blinking as they spend eating – a total of about five years over a whole lifetime.
The heat output from the average adult body is enough to boil 30 litres (around 53 pints) of freezing water.
If all of your body’s molecules of DNA (the chemical which makes up your genes) were stretched out, they would reach to the Moon and back 3,000 times!
The world record for holding your breath is 7.5 minutes. Most people can only manage around 1 minute.
The hair of really intelligent people contains larger quantities of the minerals copper and zinc than the hair of less clever people.
It is impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.
When you sneeze, all of your bodily functions stop momentarily.
An average person falls asleep in seven minutes.
Being cold in the night tends to give you bad dreams.The colder the room, the more likely you are to have a bad dream.Wrap up warm tonight!
About 125 grams (5 ounces) of the food you eat each day comes out as faeces. Most of the rest is water, and the remainder is nutrients absorbed by your body.
If you have your head cut off, you may remain conscious and able to see for several seconds before you die.
In the 1930s, it was not uncommon for women to swallow live tapeworms in an attempt to lose weight. The tapeworms would live in their stomachs, eating some of the food the women ate.
Your fingernails grow four times faster than your toenails.
It only takes about 10 days to die from a total lack of sleep.
People who live at very high altitudes have blood in their bodies that can deliver oxygen around the body much more efficiently than the blood of sea-level dwellers.
Dripping concentrated chilli oil into open wounds during surgery numbs the nerves for weeks and prevents patients feeling pain after an operation.
A ‘body farm’ is a research centre where dead bodies are left to decay in various situations. Scientists study their decomposition and the information is used to help police with murder investigations.
Chewing bread or gum while you peel onions will prevent the onions making you cry.
Mitochondria are parts of the cells in our bodies. Scientists think that they were originally bacteria, which have become absorbed into our bodies and are now an essential part of us.They take in nutrients and make energy for our cells.
Chinese scientists are testing robot-controlled mice. They follow instructions from a computer transmitted through electrodes in their brains. Scientists are hoping to use their techniques to cure disabilities by bypassing damaged nerves.
Some substances colour your urine – if you eat lots of rhubarb, your urine will be orange, and blackberries can make it go red!
In 1804, trainee doctor Stubbins Firth tried to prove that yellow fever is not an infectious disease by drinking his patients’ vomit! Although he did not get yellow fever, he was wrong. It is very contagious, but must enter directly through the bloodstream.
People in Pakistan have been visiting the dentist for 9,000 years.Archaeologists have found drilled and capped teeth in ancient skeletons discovered there.
Most people’s ears grow a quarter of a centimetre (0.1 inches) per year for their whole life.
Genetic evidence shows that most people in Britain are descended from the Spanish. It’s thought that Spanish fishermen colonized Britain 6,000 years ago and took over from the native Britons.
Most American fashion models are thinner than 98 per cent of American women.
The amount of electrical energy generated by your brain is enough to power a light bulb!
Medical researchers studied 46 professional swordswallowers and discovered that sore throats are common amongst them, especially when they are training... how surprising!
Researchers think girls like pink and red colours because thousands of years ago their job was to hunt for ripe berries. Over the years girls’ eyes became conditioned to seek out those berry colours.
Babies have many more taste buds than adults.
A chemical from bullfrogs may help doctors to wipe out the deadly MRSA virus, which infects some hospital patients. Frog chemicals have been used to treat wounds for centuries.
Neanderthal (early) man had larger brains than people have now!
There are around 100 million microbes living in your mouth at any time. They feed on scraps of food and dead cells from your mouth.
One of our closest relatives is the colugo or ‘flying lemur’. It’s like a squirrel with bat-like flaps of skin between its arms, legs and tail and it glides from tree to tree.After apes, it’s the animal genetically closest to humans!
One in 20 people has an extra rib.
Doctors in the old days used leeches to remove people’s blood.Today, doctors still use leeches in some surgical procedures, as they produce chemicals that kill pain and keep blood flowing without clotting.
Gnathostoma spinigerum is a parasitic worm that lives under the skin. It moves around at a rate of about 1 centimetre (0.4 inches) per hour, so if you have one you can watch it moving under your skin!
The name for gurgling in your stomach is borborygmus. It’s caused by all the gases and half-digested food jumbling around and being pushed through the gut.
Gas you take in with food takes between 30 and 45 minutes to be released as a fart. It can come out quicker as a burp.
Dandruff is made of clumps of dead skin cells mixed with dirt and oil from your scalp.You lose millions of skin cells each day, so there’s plenty available to make dandruff!
There are 2,000 glands in your ear that produce earwax.The sticky wax collects dirt, dead bugs and old skin cells before it falls out of your ears. It also kills germs!
The water in urine comes from your blood. It goes from your food and drink through the gut wall into the blood, and is taken from the blood to make urine.
Mucous (slime) in your nose collects all the dirt you breathe in, including particles of smoke, pollen, exhaust fumes – and even dust from outer space! The slime and dirt clump together to make bogeys.
Half of the bulk of faeces is bacteria.
Bile is the liquid that breaks down starches in your body. It determines the colour of urine, faeces and vomit.
Sweat only smells bad because bacteria break it down when it stays on your skin. So, if your armpits or feet smell, it’s rotting sweat helped along by colonies of bacteria.
The broad tapeworm can live in your gut for decades and grow to 10 metres (39 feet) in length.You may not even know you have one...
A pimple appears when a hair follicle becomes clogged by dried-up oil that oozes out of the skin.
In the condition myiasis, maggots hatch out and live under the skin – they can even be seen wriggling around. In 1993, doctors in Boston, USA, developed a treatment for myiasis that involved covering the skin with bacon. Maggots like the bacon, so come up towards it. Doctors then pull them out with tweezers. Gross!
Most people pass about a litre (2 pints) of gas a day as burps and farts.
Bacteria can survive 10,000 times the dose of radiation that would kill a person.
There are tiny hairs all over your body, except for the palms of your hands and the soles of your feet.
Tooth farming is an experimental technique in which scientists take dental stem cells (cells from immature teeth) and use them to grow complete teeth. So far, only parts of a tooth have been grown, but farmed teeth might replace dentures in 15 years’ time.
Forensic scientists examine maggots and beetles eating dead bodies to try to work out the time that the person died. They work out at which stages of decomposition the different bugs like to eat the body.
When you vomit, the muscles that usually push the food down through your gut go into reverse and push it up and out of your mouth.
Dead bodies swell up as they rot, because decomposition produces lots of gas. Some dead bodies burp or fart as they release gas, which can be quite alarming!
There are several medical conditions that lead people to act like or believe they are wild animals such as wolves.These may explain some of the stories about werewolves.
Your stomach uses hydrochloric acid to digest your food, but if you spill it on to your skin, it burns you. The stomach produces mucous to protect itself from the acid. When someone dies and the mucous stops, the acid starts to dissolve the stomach.
Roy Sullivan of the USA survived being struck by lightning seven times and eventually committed suicide.
Putrescine, one of the smelly chemicals produced by rotting dead bodies, is also partly responsible for bad breath.
Some people pay to have their bodies frozen after death in case scientists work out a way to bring them back in the future!
You produce about a litre (about 2 pints) of saliva every day. It helps to break down your food before you swallow it, and to keep your teeth clean.
When people die in extreme circumstances their muscles can go into spasm and freeze in their final position. Forensic scientists can use this to show that someone was still alive when pushed into a river, for example, or died holding a weapon.